Staking withdrawals page (#9248)
ethereum/ethereum-org-website: src/content/staking/withdrawals/index.md

title: Staking withdrawals
description: Page summarizing what staking push withdrawals are, how they work, and what stakers need to do to get their rewards
lang: en
template: staking
image: ../../../assets/staking/leslie-withdrawal.png
alt: Leslie the rhino with her staking rewards
sidebarDepth: 2
summaryPoints:
  - The Shanghai upgrade brings staking withdrawals to Ethereum
  - Validator operators must provide a withdrawal address to enable
  - Rewards are automatically distributed every few days
  - Validators who fully exit staking will receive their remaining balance
---

<UpgradeStatus dateKey="page-upgrades-withdrawals">
  Staking withdrawals will be enabled through the Shanghai/Capella upgrade. This Ethereum network upgrade is expected to take place in the first half of 2023. <a href="#when">More below</a>
</UpgradeStatus>

The Shanghai/Capella upgrade enables **staking withdrawals** on Ethereum, allowing people to unlock ETH staking rewards. Reward payments will automatically and regularly be sent to a provided withdrawal address linked to each validator. Users can also exit staking entirely, unlocking their full validator balance.

## Staking rewards {#staking-rewards}

> Reward payments are automatically processed for active validator accounts with a maxed out effective balance of 32 ETH, who are accumulating rewards.

Reviewer: i see, hm  i am torn whats better because this sentence is trying to explain the general process so i thinks its better if it focuses on the majority use case and then elsewhere shed light on the side situations but i can see how we might not want to misguide people.

<p>In general, users will likely have nothing they need to do, and these services will no longer be limited by the inability to withdrawal rewards or exit validator funds after this upgrade.</p>
<p>This means that users can now decide to redeem their underlying staked ETH, or change which staking provider they utilize. If a particular pool is getting too large, funds can be exited and redeemed, and re-staked with a <a href="https://pools.invis.cloud">smaller provider</a>. Or, if you’ve accumulated enough ETH you could <a href="/staking/solo/">stake from home</a>.</p>
</ExpandableCard>

<ExpandableCard title="Do reward payments (partial withdrawals) happen automatically?">
<p>Yes, as long as your validator has provided a withdrawal address. This must be provided once to enable any withdrawals, then reward payments will be automatically triggered every few days with each validator sweep.</p>
</ExpandableCard>

<ExpandableCard title="Do full withdrawals happen automatically?">
<p>No, if your validator is still active on the network, a full withdrawal will not happen automatically. This requires manually initiating a voluntary exit.</p>

> <p>Once a validator has completed the exiting process, and assuming the account has withdrawal credentials, the remaining balance will <em>then</em> be withdrawal during the next validator sweep.</p>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
<p>Once a validator has a withdrawal credential set and completes the exiting process, the remaining balance will <em>then</em> be withdrawn during the next validator sweep.</p>
```

Any balance above 32 ETH earned through rewards does not actually contribute to principle, or increase the weight of this validator on the network, and is thus automatically withdrawn as a reward payment every few days. Aside from providing a withdrawal address one time, these rewards do not require any action from the validator operator. This is all initiated on the consensus layer, thus no gas (transaction fee) is required at any step.

### How did we get here? {#how-did-we-get-here}

Over the past few years Ethereum has undergone several network upgrades transitioning to a network secured by ETH itself, instead of energy-intensive mining as it once was. Participating in consensus on Ethereum is now known as "staking", as participants have voluntarily locked up ETH, placing it "at stake" for the ability to participate in the network. Users who follow the rules will be rewarded, while attempts to cheat can be penalized.

Since the launch of the staking deposit contract in November 2020, some brave Ethereum pioneers have voluntarily locked funds up to activate "validators", the accounts that have the right to formally attest to and propose blocks, following network rules.

> Before the Shanghai update, you couldn't use or get your money out if you staked ETH. But now, you can opt-in to automatically receive your rewards into a provided account, and you can also take out all your money whenever you want.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Before the Shanghai update, you couldn't use or access your staked ETH. But now, you can opt-in to automatically receive your rewards into a provided account, and you can also withdraw your staked ETH whenever you want.
```

I understand what this is going for, but I found it a bit confusing considering there are many types of money on Ethereum, and DeFi using similar terms. I think this wording keeps it in the context of staked ETH in the protocol.

### How do I prepare? {#how-do-i-prepare}

> <WithdrawalsTabComparison />

Reviewer 4: Same concern as before related to the ease of translation management.
It's not a blocker, but I think it's worth taking the time to consider later how to pass the content to this component from the .md file, instead of having the text living inside the component.

Author: Agree. Plan is to publish this and then tee it up for translation. When we do that, we should look at this component and consider ways to improve it for this purpose.

</InfoBanner>

There is <strong>no threat to your funds in the meantime</strong> for not providing this. Failure to add withdrawal credentials will simply leave the ETH locked in the validator account as it has been until a withdrawal address is provided.

## Exiting staking entirely {#exiting-staking-entirely}

Providing a withdrawal address is required before _any_ funds can be transferred out of a validator account balance.

Users looking to exit staking entirely and withdraw their full balance back must also sign and broadcast a "voluntary exit" message with validator keys which will start the process of exiting from staking. This is done with your validator client and submitted to your beacon node, and does not require gas.

The process of a validator exiting from staking takes variable amounts of time, depending on how many others are exiting at the same time. Once complete, this account will no longer be responsible for performing validator network duties, is no longer eligible for rewards, and no longer has their ETH "at stake". At this time the account with be marked as fully “withdrawable”.

> Once an account is flagged as "withdrawable", and withdrawal credentials have been provided, there is nothing more a user needs to do aside from wait. Accounts are automatically and continuously swept by block proposers for eligible exited funds, and your account balance will be transferred in full (also known as a "full withdrawal") during the next sweep (more on this [below](#validator-sweeping)).

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Once an account is flagged as "withdrawable", and withdrawal credentials have been provided, there is nothing more a user needs to do aside from wait. Accounts are automatically and continuously swept by block proposers for eligible exited funds, and your account balance will be transferred in full (also known as a "full withdrawal") during the next [sweep](#validator-sweeping).
```

## When are staking withdrawals enabled? {#when}

Withdrawal functionality will be enabled through a two-part simultaneous network upgrade, **Shanghai + Capella**.

> <ShanghaiCapella />

Reviewer 4: Wondering if somehow we could write the content in the md file and accept it as its children 🤔 for translation concerns.

Author: Same as above, I agree. Let's scope that to a subsequent initiative if you're okay with that.

---
title: Staking withdrawals
description: Page summarizing what staking push withdrawals are, how they work, and what stakers need to do to get their rewards
lang: en
template: staking
image: ../../../assets/staking/leslie-withdrawal.png
alt: Leslie the rhino with her staking rewards
sidebarDepth: 2
summaryPoints:
  - The Shanghai upgrade brings staking withdrawals to Ethereum

>   - Validator operators must provide a withdrawal address to enable

Reviewer: the idea was to drop "to enable" part and just have  "validators must first provide a withdrawal address"

>   - Validator operators must provide a withdrawal address to enable

Reviewer: to make it more concise for the header

## Staking rewards {#staking-rewards}

Reward payments are automatically processed for active validator accounts with a maxed out effective balance of 32 ETH, who are accumulating rewards.

Any balance above 32 ETH earned through rewards does not actually contribute to principle, or increase the weight of this validator on the network, and is thus automatically withdrawn as a reward payment every few days. Aside from providing a withdrawal address one time, these rewards do not require any action from the validator operator. This is all initiated on the consensus layer, thus no gas (transaction fee) is required at any step.

### How did we get here? {#how-did-we-get-here}

Over the past few years Ethereum has undergone several network upgrades transitioning to a network secured by ETH itself, instead of energy-intensive mining as it once was. Participating in consensus on Ethereum is now known as "staking", as participants have voluntarily locked up ETH, placing it "at stake" for the ability to participate in the network. Following the rules rewards users, while attempts to cheat can be penalized.

> Since the launch of the staking deposit contract in November 2020, some brave Ethereum pioneers have voluntarily locked funds up to enable "validators", or accounts that have the right to formally attest to and propose blocks, following network rules.

Author: I try to avoid using "validator" as a human role, and reserve validator for the Beacon Chain entity... the person doing the depositing I would refer to as the staker who controls a validator... "activate" I think would be better here
```suggestion
Since the launch of the staking deposit contract in November 2020, some brave Ethereum pioneers have voluntarily locked funds up to activate "validators", the accounts that have the right to formally attest to and propose blocks, following network rules.
```

> Since the launch of the staking deposit contract in November 2020, some brave Ethereum pioneers have voluntarily locked funds up to enable "validators", or accounts that have the right to formally attest to and propose blocks, following network rules.

Reviewer: ok that makes sense

> Before the enabling of staking withdrawals, none of the funds staked had any ability to be unlocked and used elsewhere. With the addition of staking withdrawals, staked ETH no longer requires an unknown lock-up period. Liquid rewards will automatically be deposited into the provided account, and stakers can unlock and withdrawn their entire balance at any time.

Author: Given some of the reason discussion around the cohort of individuals who will not want this enabled by default, we may want to consider adjusting the phrasing to describe an "opt-in" setup.

```suggestion
Before the Shanghai update, you couldn't use or get your money out if you staked ETH. But now, you can opt-in to automatically receive your rewards into a provided account, and you can also take out all your money whenever you want. 
```

2. **Is the validator exited and withdrawable?** If the validator has fully exited, and we have reached the epoch where their account is considered to be "withdrawable", then a full withdrawal will be processed. This will transfer the entire remaining balance to the withdrawal address.
3. **Is the effective balance maxed out at 32?** If the account has withdrawal credentials, is not fully exited, and has rewards above 32 waiting, a partial withdrawal will be processed which transfers only the rewards above 32 to the user's withdrawal address.

There are only two actions that are taken by validator operators during the course of a validator's life cycle that influence this flow directly:

- Provide withdrawal credentials to enable any form of withdrawal
- Exit from the network, which will trigger a full withdrawal

### Gas free {#gas-free}

This approach to staking withdrawals avoids requiring stakers to manually submit a transaction requesting a particular amount of ETH to be withdrawn. This also means there is **no gas (transaction fee) required**, and withdrawals also do not compete for existing execution layer block space.

> ### How soon will I get my rewards payments? {#how-soon}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### How frequently will I get my staking rewards? {#how-soon}
```

this section is in my opinion more important than how withdrawals work and i would argue should be moved up under When staking withdrawals are enabled

A maximum of 16 withdrawals can be processed in a single block. At that rate, 115,200 validator withdrawals can be processed per day (assuming no missed blocks). As noted above, validators without eligible withdrawals will be skipped, decreasing the time to finish the sweep.

Expanding this calculation, we can estimate the time it will take to process a given number of withdrawals:

<div style="max-width:50ch;margin-inline:auto;">

| Number of withdrawals | Time to complete |
| :-------------------: | :--------------: |

> |        100,000        |     0.9 days     |

Reviewer: @wackerow  does it make sense to start on 100 000? didnt ethereum recently hit 500k validators?

Author: Probably not... validators can leave the network, but I think it's reasonable to assume it's unlikely to drop too significantly... This would also exclude all active validators who are below 32 ETH but I don't think that's too many. I think starting at 400,000 would work... and then I just went up to 1-week.

> |        100,000        |     0.9 days     |
> |        200,000        |     1.7 days     |
> |        300,000        |     2.6 days     |

Author: ```suggestion
```

---
title: Staking withdrawals
description: Page summarizing what staking push withdrawals are, how they work, and what stakers need to do to get their rewards
lang: en
template: staking
image: ../../../assets/staking/leslie-withdrawal.png
alt: Leslie the rhino with her staking rewards
sidebarDepth: 2
summaryPoints:
  - The Shanghai upgrade brings staking withdrawals to Ethereum
  - Validator operators must provide a withdrawal address to enable

>   - Rewards payments are automatically sent to the address provided every few days

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
  - Reward payments are automatically sent to the address provided every few days
```
I think just "reward payments"? The double plural feels weird (but I'm no grammar expert)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - Rewards are automatically sent to the address provided every few days
```
Maybe the "payments" is not needed?

Author: Advocating for "payments" as it distinguishes between just your earned rewards, and the act of moving those rewards in the form of a payment.

Given that these are "rewards", not "a single reward", and that we are talking about the payouts in a pluralistic way, as in "payments", that's why "rewards payments" was chosen here... But I get it... "Reward payments" is fine with me if people think it's too awkward

>   - Rewards payments are automatically sent to the address provided every few days

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
  - Rewards payments are automatically sent to the withdrawal address every few days
```

Reviewer: I think we can go even a bit further and simplify it to

"Rewards are automatically distributed every few days"

Author: Given we mention the need for everyone to "provide a withdrawal address to enable" directly above, I agree we can simplify this. Agree with your adjustment Sam, but think Jakub's cleans it up nicely.

Author: ```suggestion
  - Rewards are automatically distributed every few days
```

>   - Fully exited validators will automatically receive their remaining balance

Reviewer 5: "Fully exited validators" feels like a somewhat confusing term...

Maybe something like "Validators who fully exit staking will automatically receive their remaining balance"?

Author: We may want to ditch the "automatically" party here as well

```suggestion
  - Validators who fully exit staking will receive their remaining balance
```

By removing "automatic" I think it reduces confusion around "will a full withdrawal _happen to me automatically?_", which the answer is of course no (except for slashing/low balance)... the exit must be initiated but the rest is automatic. I think the above wording reduces the chances of somebody thinking that.

---

<UpgradeStatus dateKey="page-upgrades-withdrawals">

>   Staking withdrawals will be enabled through the Shanghai/Capella upgrade. This upgrade is expected to take place in the first half of 2023. <a href="#when">More below</a>

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
  Staking withdrawals will be enabled through the Shanghai/Capella upgrade. This Ethereum network upgrade is expected to take place in the first half of 2023. <a href="#when">More below</a>
```
Maybe worth explicitly mentioning this is a protocol upgrade?

Do we have anything we can link to when we mention the "Shanghai/Capella upgrade"? @jmcook1186?

Author: Should we include the word "protocol" here?
```suggestion
  Staking withdrawals will be enabled through the Shanghai/Capella upgrade. This Ethereum network protocol upgrade is expected to take place in the first half of 2023. <a href="#when">More below</a>
```

</UpgradeStatus>

> The Shanghai/Capella upgrade enables **staking withdrawals** on Ethereum, allowing people to unlock rewards and optionally fully withdrawal funds from staking. Rewards payments will automatically and regularly be sent to a provided withdrawal address linked to each validator. Users can also exit staking entirely, unlocking their full validator balance.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
The Shanghai/Capella upgrade enables **staking withdrawals** on Ethereum, allowing people to unlock rewards and optionally fully withdrawal funds from staking. Reward payments will automatically and regularly be sent to a provided withdrawal address linked to each validator. Users can also exit staking entirely, unlocking their full validator balance.
```
Same here (though not 100% sure on this)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Shanghai/Capella upgrade enables **staking withdrawals** on Ethereum, allowing people to unlock rewards or fully withdraw funds from staking. Rewards will automatically and regularly be sent to a provided withdrawal address linked to each validator. Users can also exit staking entirely, unlocking their full validator balance.
```

Author: Looking to remove the double mention of full withdrawals here... Chatted with @konopkja about this, and we'd like to focus on the reward payments to start, and leave the last sentence to also note full withdrawals, given the introductory nature of this paragraph.

> The Shanghai/Capella upgrade enables **staking withdrawals** on Ethereum, allowing people to unlock rewards and optionally fully withdrawal funds from staking. Rewards payments will automatically and regularly be sent to a provided withdrawal address linked to each validator. Users can also exit staking entirely, unlocking their full validator balance.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
The Shanghai/Capella upgrade enables **staking withdrawals** on Ethereum, allowing people to unlock ETH staking rewards and optionally fully withdrawal funds from staking. Rewards payments will automatically and regularly be sent to a provided withdrawal address linked to each validator. Users can also exit staking entirely, unlocking their full validator balance.
```

> The Shanghai/Capella upgrade enables **staking withdrawals** on Ethereum, allowing people to unlock rewards and optionally fully withdrawal funds from staking. Rewards payments will automatically and regularly be sent to a provided withdrawal address linked to each validator. Users can also exit staking entirely, unlocking their full validator balance.

Reviewer 5: > and optionally fully withdrawal funds from staking

I wonder if that part is necessary given you mention it again in the last sentence?

> Users can also exit staking entirely, unlocking their full validator balance.

Author: Agree.. planning to remove.

Author: ```suggestion
The Shanghai/Capella upgrade enables **staking withdrawals** on Ethereum, allowing people to unlock ETH staking rewards. Reward payments will automatically and regularly be sent to a provided withdrawal address linked to each validator. Users can also exit staking entirely, unlocking their full validator balance.
```

> **Note to validator operators**: If you did not provide a withdrawal address on initial deposit, you will need to upgrade withdrawal credentials before any withdrawals will be enabled for your validator account. The [Staking Launchpad](https://launchpad.ethereum.org/withdrawals) has more details on when and how to do this.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Note to validator operators: If a withdrawal address was not set during the initial deposit, validators will need to enable withdrawals by submitting a withdrawal credential change. For details on how and when to make this change, see [Staking Launchpad](https://launchpad.ethereum.org/withdrawals).
```

## Staking rewards {#staking-rewards}

> **Rewards payments** are automatically processed for active validator accounts with a maxed out effective balance of 32 ETH, who are accumulating rewards.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Rewards are automatically and periodically withdrawn for active validators with accrued ETH rewards above the 32 ETH maximum effective balance.
```

Author: There is some technical nuance here with how this is worded...

Technically an account can have a "total balance" over 32 (but less than 32.25), while its "effective balance" is 31. [See this excellent Attestant post](https://www.attestant.io/posts/understanding-validator-effective-balance/) for details, but this means that there are cases where they may "have rewards above 32", but if their actual _effective balance_ dipped from previous inactivity, then they may not be eligible yet.

Admittedly, it's a subtlety/technical nuance, but not sure I want to blur that distinction.

> Any balance above 32 ETH earned through rewards does not actually contribute to principle, or increase the sway of this validator on the network, and is thus automatically withdrawn as a rewards payment every few days. Aside from providing a withdrawal address one time, these rewards do not require any action from the validator operator, nor do they consume gas (no associated transaction fee) or take up existing block space.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
Any balance above 32 ETH earned through rewards does not actually contribute to principle, or increase the weight of this validator on the network, and is thus automatically withdrawn as a rewards payment every few days. Aside from providing a withdrawal address one time, these rewards do not require any action from the validator operator, nor do they consume gas (no associated transaction fee) or take up existing block space.
```
"sway" seems a bit vague?

> Any balance above 32 ETH earned through rewards does not actually contribute to principle, or increase the sway of this validator on the network, and is thus automatically withdrawn as a rewards payment every few days. Aside from providing a withdrawal address one time, these rewards do not require any action from the validator operator, nor do they consume gas (no associated transaction fee) or take up existing block space.

Reviewer 5: You mention this does not consume gas but I think perhaps worth explicitly mentioning this whole process is accomplished by broadcasting messages, NOT on-chain txs?

Author: Ah, I think I see your point here.. 

> Aside from providing a withdrawal address one time, these rewards do not require any action from the validator operator, nor do they consume gas (no associated transaction fee) or take up existing block space.

...Kind of implied that "providing a withdrawal address one time" DOES cost gas and take up block space.

I can touch this up.

### How did we get here? {#how-did-we-get-here}

> Over the past few years Ethereum has undergone several network upgrades transitioning to a network secured by ETH itself, instead of energy-intensive mining as it once was. Participating in consensus on Ethereum is now known as "staking", as participants have voluntarily locked up ETH, placing it "at stake" for the ability to participate in the network. Following the rules rewards users, while attempts to cheat can be penalized.

Reviewer 5: Any reason you're not mentioning PoS or PoW here? Seems like a good opportunity to link out to those pages...

Author: Simplifying language. Intentionally tried to keep this copy at a more human-centric level, and easier reading level.

I think we could still link out though, but also @konopkja has done some work and has a [content guide](https://www.notion.so/efdn/Content-guide-based-on-collected-feedback-edfff575d1754dee9482130bec46b97e) on Notion which notes that users tend to get bogged down by our overuse of links. So, I started by minimizing the number of things we link out to in the initial pass.

As we get more finalized on the copy and structure, I think it's worth taking a look at the page and seeing what makes sense to link out to in a non-overburdening or distracting way.

Author: Just did a quick check and we're in the range of ~1400 words... per the suggestions in the guide of about 5 links per 1000 words, we would target about 7 links (which I don't include the further reading links at the bottom). We have 6 already... I know it's just a guide, and SEO is also worth noting, but I do agree we just don't want to go too far with them (such as linking to dev docs) for a page like this.

Before the enabling of staking withdrawals, none of the funds staked had any ability to be unlocked and used elsewhere. With the addition of staking withdrawals, staked ETH no longer requires an unknown lock-up period. Liquid rewards will automatically be deposited into the provided account, and stakers can unlock and withdrawn their entire balance at any time.

### How do I prepare? {#how-do-i-prepare}

<WithdrawalsTabComparison />

### Important notices {#important-notices}

Providing a withdrawal address is a required step for any validator account before it will be eligible to have ETH withdrawn from its balance.

<InfoBanner emoji="⚠️" isWarning>
  <strong>Each validator account can only be assigned a single withdrawal address, one time.</strong> Once an address is chosen and submitted to the Beacon Chain, this cannot be undone or changed again. Double-check ownership and accuracy of the address provided before submitting.
</InfoBanner>

> Failure to update withdrawal credentials will simply leave the ETH locked in the validator account as it has been until a withdrawal address is provided. There is <strong>no threat to your funds in the meantime</strong> for not providing this—only the loss of opportunity.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
Failure to add withdrawal credentials will simply leave the ETH locked in the validator account as it has been until a withdrawal address is provided. There is <strong>no threat to your funds in the meantime</strong> for not providing this—only the loss of opportunity.
```
Add vs update, given this action can only be done once, correct?

Author: Correct, only once. Either way works for me. Per chat with @konopkja, we're going to switch the order of these two sentences as well

Author: ```suggestion
There is <strong>no threat to your funds in the meantime</strong> for not providing this—only the loss of opportunity. Failure to add withdrawal credentials will simply leave the ETH locked in the validator account as it has been until a withdrawal address is provided.
```

## Exiting staking entirely {#exiting-staking-entirely}

Providing a withdrawal address is required before _any_ funds can be transferred out of a validator account balance.

Users looking to exit staking entirely and withdrawal their full balance back must also sign and broadcast a "voluntary exit" message with validator keys which will start the process of exiting from staking.

The process of a validator exiting from staking takes variable amounts of time, depending how many others are exiting at the same time. Once complete, this account will no longer be responsible for performing validator network duties, is no longer eligible for rewards, and no longer has their ETH "at stake". At this time the account with be marked as fully “withdrawable”.

> Once an account is flagged as "withdrawable", and withdrawal credentials have been provided, there is nothing more a user needs to do aside from wait. Accounts are automatically and continuously swept for eligible exits, and your account balance will be transferred in full during the next sweep (also known as a "full withdrawal").

Reviewer 5: Worth mentioning this is executed by the protocol? You make it clear the user doesn't have to do anything but I'm left wondering "who does this?".

Author: Yeah, didn't want to get too in the weeds but I think a simple comment here would suffice.

Author: Added that this is done by block proposers... there is more detail below in the "How do withdrawal payments work?" section

## When are staking withdrawals enabled? {#when}

> Withdrawals will be enabled through a two-part simultaneous network upgrade, **Shanghai + Capella**.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
Withdrawal functionality will be enabled through a two-part simultaneous network upgrade, **Shanghai + Capella**.
```
A validator enables withdrawals, the upgrade enables withdrawal _functionality_.

Author: Yeah, can't hurt to help with the distinction

<ShanghaiCapella />

## How do withdrawal payments work? {#how-do-withdrawals-work}

> Once a validator account has a withdrawal address registered, rewards payments for eligible ETH will happen automatically.

Reviewer 5: How? By the protocol?

Author: Magic 🪄  😃

Author: Jk, can add a comment here =)

Author: Looking here again, is this not answered in the `Validator "sweeping"` section next?

I can try to make it a little more clear this is a protocol/rules driven process

Author: Perhaps this is a bad opening sentence for this section. May be better to dive right into the actual "how" rather than restating the prerequisite of providing a withdrawal address.

> Instead of requiring stakers to manually submit a transaction requesting a particular amount of ETH to be withdrawn, withdraws are designed to automatically transfer out any amount of ETH that is not actively at stake—**no gas required**.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
Instead of requiring stakers to manually submit a transaction requesting a particular amount of ETH to be withdrawn, withdrawals are designed to automatically transfer out any amount of ETH that is not actively at stake—**no gas required**.
```

### Validator "sweeping"

With each block, the proposing validator must include a list of withdrawals to process. Each validator is evaluated for possible withdrawals in order, evaluated as follows:

> | Decision                                     | Yes                                   | No                                                     |

Reviewer 5: Nice table! I think this could be even better as a flowchart. Perhaps a future iteration with some design help? :)

Author: Yeah definitely! Would love to have it as part of THIS iteration, but as with any infographic/flow chart type things, they're easy to make in English-only non-responsive PNG's, but will take a little dev work if we want it to be intl/mobile friendly. TBD on this one, but design suggestions certainly welcome ❤️ cc: @konopkja

| 1. Has a withdrawal address been provided?   | Proceed to #2                         | **No** withdrawal will be processed, validator skipped |
| 2. Is the validator still active?            | Proceed to #3                         | **Full** withdrawal will be processed                  |
| 3. Is the effective balance maxed out at 32? | **Rewards payment** will be processed | **No** withdrawal will be processed, validator skipped |

A maximum of 16 withdrawals can be processed in a single block. At that rate, 115,200 validator withdrawals can be processed per day (assuming no missed blocks). As noted above, validators without eligible withdrawals will be skipped, decreasing the time to finish the sweep.

## Frequently asked questions {#faq}

<ExpandableCard title="Once I have provided a withdrawal address, can I change it to an alternative withdrawal address?">
No, the process to provide withdrawal credentials is a one-time process, and cannot be changed once submitted.
</ExpandableCard>

<ExpandableCard title="What if I participate in liquid staking derivatives or pooled staking">

> <p>If you are part of a staking pool or hold liquid staking derivatives, you should check with your provider for more details about how staking withdrawals will affect your arrangement, as each service operates differently.</p>

Reviewer 5: Link to staking pools page?

</ExpandableCard>

<ExpandableCard title="Do rewards payments (partial withdrawals) happen automatically?">
<p>Yes, as long as your validator has provided a withdrawal address. This must be provided once to enable any withdrawals, then rewards payments will be automatically triggered every few days with each validator sweep.</p>
</ExpandableCard>

<ExpandableCard title="Do full withdrawals happen automatically?">
<p>No, if your validator is still active on the network, a full withdrawal will not happen automatically. This requires manually initiating a voluntary exit.</p>
<p>Once a validator has completed the exiting process, and assuming the account has withdrawal credentials, the remaining balance will <em>then</em> be withdrawal during the next validator sweep.</p>
</ExpandableCard>

<ExpandableCard title="How can I withdrawal a custom amount?">

> <p>Withdrawals are designed to be pushed automatically, transferring any ETH that is not actively contributing to stake.</p>

Reviewer 5: I'd add for clarity something like "any amount beyond 32 ETH"

Author: This sentence was written this way specifically to sum up the criteria for ANY withdrawal..
- If you're active, you can have up to 32 ETH at stake. The portion "not actively contributing to stake" is only the ETH above 32.
- But, if you've exited, the portion "not actively contributing to stake" is 100% of it.

I do understand this may not be intuitive though, so perhaps we break it up and be more explicit about the two types.

Author: Left a note elsewhere too about some nuances with "any amount beyond 32 ETH", since this also requires that your _effective balance_ is 32. 

Explainer: It is possible to have a total balance over 32 (but less than 32.25), and have your effective balance be 31... this could happen if you're offline and drop to 31.75 total balance, which would cause your effective balance to drop to 31. To get back to 32 effective, you actually need to get your total balance to 32.25 first. This is due to what are called hysteresis zones where an effective balance will not change, and are explained in [this Attestant post]](https://www.attestant.io/posts/understanding-validator-effective-balance/)

This was also intentionally kept concise as an FAQ answer since there is more explanation above about what you're mentioning... Just wanted to make it clear you can't request custom amounts since it's all automatically processed. Feel free to push back though, not against expanding this a little if people prefer.

---
title: Staking withdrawals
description: Page summarizing what staking push withdrawals are, how they work, and what stakers need to do to get their rewards
lang: en
template: staking
image: ../../../assets/staking/leslie-withdrawal.png
alt: Leslie the rhino with her staking rewards
sidebarDepth: 2
summaryPoints:
  - The Shanghai upgrade brings staking withdrawals to Ethereum
  - Validator operators must provide a withdrawal address to enable
  - Rewards payments are automatically sent to the address provided every few days
  - Fully exited validators will automatically receive their remaining balance
---

<UpgradeStatus dateKey="page-upgrades-withdrawals">
  Staking withdrawals will be enabled through the Shanghai/Capella upgrade. This upgrade is expected to take place in the first half of 2023. <a href="#when">More below</a>
</UpgradeStatus>

> The Shanghai/Capella upgrade enables **staking withdrawals** on Ethereum, allowing people to unlock rewards and optionally fully withdrawal funds from staking. Rewards payments will automatically and regularly be sent to a provided withdrawal address linked to each validator. Users can also exit staking entirely, unlocking their full validator balance.

Reviewer 2: The Shanghai/Capella Ethereum upgrade will enable **staking withdrawals**. Staking withdrawals will allow validators to fully withdraw their deposited funds or withdraw the excess balance above 32 ETH.

Author: Hey @0xMNG! Thanks for hoping in to help out.. I'll take a look through and see what we can incorporate.

Think we can use part of this in the next iteration, but we were looking to trim out the comment about full withdrawals towards the beginning since this is mentioned explicitly at the end.

Author: Left a couple comments, pulled one suggestion in... a handful of them I felt were more semantic adjustments and wasn't sure they were adding too much, but I'm biased =) so I'll leave them for others to comment. Thank you for helping out!

More adjustments will continue to roll out here

> **Note to validator operators**: If you did not provide a withdrawal address on initial deposit, you will need to upgrade withdrawal credentials before any withdrawals will be enabled for your validator account. The [Staking Launchpad](https://launchpad.ethereum.org/withdrawals) has more details on when and how to do this.

Reviewer 2: **Note to validator operators**: If a withdrawal address was not set during the initial deposit, validators will need to submit a withdrawal credential change to enable withdrawals. For details on how and when to make this change, see [Staking Launchpad](https://launchpad.ethereum.org/withdrawals).

## Staking rewards {#staking-rewards}

> **Rewards payments** are automatically processed for active validator accounts with a maxed out effective balance of 32 ETH, who are accumulating rewards.

Reviewer 2: **Rewards payments** are automatically and periodically withdrawn for active validator with accrued ETH rewards above the 32 ETH maximum effective balance.
